---
layout: post
title: "CSS :root Selector (vs. html) by Example"
image: "images/content/html5.png"
excerpt: "Understanding the CSS :root selector vs. html selector by example" 
tags : [css]
---

The `:root` selector in CSS lets you matches the most top-level element of your document (or the document root). In the case of HTML, this is equivalent to using the `html` selector to select the `<html>` element, with the exception that the `:root` selector has a **higher specifity** (`:root` is a pseudo-class selector which has a specifity equals to a class selector).

CSS is not just for styling HTML documents. It can be used with other document languages, such as SVG and XML--the `:root` pseudo-class, in this case, refers to different elements.

We can use the `:root` pseudo-class selector can be used like any other selector. For example:

```css
:root {
  background: hsl(0, 100%, 50%);
  color: blue;
}
```

This will apply the CSS styles to the `<html>` element.

## <a name="CSS_root_vs_html">The `:root` Selector vs. the `html` Selector</a>

The major difference between `:root` and `html` is that `:root` (which is a pseudo-class selector) has a higher specificity than `html` ( wihc is a type selector). Let's consider this small example: 

```css
:root {
  background-color: white;
}
html {
  background-color: black;
}
```

## <a name="root_CSS_Variables">Using `:root` with CSS Variables (Custom properties)</a>

The `:root` selector overrides the `html` selector. The color of the background will be white not black.

One useful use of the `:root` selector is for declaring global-scope CSS variables or custom properties. For example:

```css
:root { --bg-color: hsl(120, 100%, 50%); }
```

The `--bg-color` custom property is available on the global scope. That means the value of `--bg-color` which is `hsl(120, 100%, 50%);` can be accessed from any other DOM element. We can use the `var()` function to get the value:

```css
#main{
	background-color: var(--bg-color);
}
```

The color of the background will be `hsl(120, 100%, 50%);`.

## References

- [Mozilla Docs for `:root`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:root)
- [`:root`](https://css-tricks.com/almanac/selectors/r/root/)

